

	GeoSteiner 3.1 Software Copyright and License Agreement
	-------------------------------------------------------

Copyright (c) 1998, 2001 by David Warme, Pawel Winter and Martin
Zachariasen.

GeoSteiner 3.1 consists of software copyright (c) 1998, 2001 by David
Warme, Pawel Winter and Martin Zachariasen ("the Authors").  The
GeoSteiner 3.1 distribution includes the packages `triangle' and
`lp_solve_2.3' which are copyrighted by third parties.  Concerning the
portions copyrighted by the Authors: permission to include in
application software, or to make digital or hard copies or machine
translations of part or all of GeoSteiner 3.1 is subject to the
following license agreement.


			License Agreement
			-----------------

The software, both binary and source for GeoSteiner 3.1, excluding only
the `lp_solve_2.3' and `triangle' packages ("the Software") is
copyrighted by David Warme, Pawel Winter, and Martin Zachariasen ("the
Authors") and ownership of all right, title and interest in and to the
Software remains with the Authors.  By using or copying the Software,
you ("the User") agree to abide by the terms of this Agreement.


Noncommercial Use
-----------------

The Authors grant to the User a royalty-free, nonexclusive right to
execute, copy, modify and distribute both the binary and source code
solely for academic, research and other similar noncommercial uses,
subject to the following conditions:

	1. User acknowledges that the Software is still in the
	   development stage and that it is being supplied "as is",
	   without any support services from the Authors.  The Authors
	   make no representations or warranties, express or implied,
	   including, without limitation, any representations or
	   warranties of the merchantability or fitness for any
	   particular purpose, or that the application of the Software,
	   will not infringe on any patents or other proprietary rights
	   of others.

	2. The Authors shall not be held liable for direct, indirect,
	   incidental or consequential damages arising from any claim by
	   User or any third party with respect to uses allowed under
	   this Agreement, or from any use of the Software.

	3. User agrees to fully indemnify and hold harmless the Authors
	   from and against any and all claims, demands, suits, losses,
	   damages, costs and expenses arising out of the User's use of
	   the Software, including without limitation, arising out of
	   the User's modification of the Software.

	4. User may modify the Software and distribute that modified
	   work to third parties provided that: (a) if posted
	   separately, it clearly acknowledges that it contains material
	   copyrighted by the Authors, (b) no charge is associated with
	   such copies, (c) User agrees to notify the Authors of the
	   distribution, (d) User clearly notifies secondary users
	   that such modified work is not the original Software, and (e)
	   this license Agreement is included without modification as a
	   conspicuous part of the distribution.

	5. User agrees that the Authors of the original work and others
	   may enjoy a royalty-free, non-exclusive license to use, copy,
	   modify and redistribute these modifications to the Software
	   made by the User and distributed to third parties as a
	   derivative work under this Agreement.

	6. This agreement will terminate immediately upon User's breach
	   of, or non-compliance with, any of its terms.  User may be
	   held liable for any copyright infringement or the
	   infringement of any other proprietary rights in the Software
	   that is caused or facilitated by the User's failure to abide
	   by the terms of this Agreement.

	7. This Agreement will be construed and enforce in accordance
	   with the law of the state of Virginia applicable to contracts
	   performed entirely within the State.  The parties irrevocably
	   consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the state or federal
	   courts located in the City of Richmond for all disputes
	   concerning this Agreement.


Commercial Use
--------------

Any User wishing to make a commercial use of the Software must contact
the Authors (at warme@s3i.com, martinz@diku.dk or pawel@diku.dk) to
arrange an appropriate license.  Commercial use includes (1) integrating
or incorporating all or part of the source code into a product for sale
or license by, or on behalf of, User to third parties, or (2)
distribution of the binary or source code to third parties for use with
a commercial product sold or licensed by, or on behalf of, the User.
